# Getting to Know a New Language

In my time working on Code School courses, I've had to quickly pick up the
basics of quite a few programming languages. This post is my attempt to provide
**a structured approach for getting to know a new language**. Initially, I'll
start with a general framework. And then I'll try to apply it to a specific
language as an example of how to apply this approach.

This framework consists of the following stages:

- Setup
- Learn
- Practice
- Build
- Repeat

## Setup

This is the _meta_ stage of getting acquainted with a new language. It involves
doing some cursory research and discovering ways that will set you up for
success in your learning.

### Community

This framework is intended to allow for self-directed study. Even so, most
learning programs fail to communicate how important it is to seek involvement
in a community. When you're first starting with a new endeavor, surrounding
yourself with support is imperative.

- [ ] Join a Slack, IRC, or forum community for the language.

You can choose the approach that works best for you, but this step is crucial
because it allows you to ask questions, get help, and get a sense of the
activity in the community.

- [ ] Sign up for a weekly email newsletter, subscribe to a podcast, or follow
relevant news on Twitter.

You could make a case that this step is optional, but I find that these things
can help with your immersion in a new language. You may come across some news
or projects or interviews that aren't relevant to you yet, but it's really
helpful to find out the key people and companies and projects that are involved
with a language. If and when your learning stalls, these kinds of things can
also provide some much-needed inspiration and reminders to continue.

- [ ] If possible, join a local meetup.

This isn't always an option depending on where you live and the popularity of
the language you're learning. But meeting with people that share your same
goals is an invaluable experience. Look for solid presentations, live coding
sessions, or projects you can work towards contributing to.

### Development Environment

Installing a language and its tools should be a relatively trivial step, but
there are some best practices to keep in mind.

- [ ] Install the language in your local development environment. Ensure that
you have both a REPL and a way to run source code files.

It's a good idea to use a version manager when possible. Some quick research
can occasionally uncover the best approach for installing a given language. But
the key here is that you need a REPL installed to be able to test out simple
snippets of code that you come across and see how it works. As you read through
learning material, you'll need to be able to type code into source files or
evaluate it in a REPL to ensure that you're able to write working code from the
beginning.

- [ ] Install editor features and tools.

Feel free to use VSCode, Atom, vim, emacs, or whichever editor you prefer. If
there are extensions or plugins or common tools for the language you're
learning, then now is a good time to get them installed to make for a smoother
development experience.

- [ ] Create a repository where you can keep your source code files.

When I start learning a new language, I like to create a new repository on
GitHub named "try-<language-name>". As I'm trying out code from books or
courses, I always save it to version control so I start to build a small
library of sample programs. Initially this might not seem useful, but over time
your collection of working programs contains tons of problems that you've
solved, and every time you come across that problem in the future you can
simply refer back to the time you solved it previously. This also gives you a
way to share your learnings and get help when you need it.

### Meta

This post is primarily about the specifics of getting familiarity with a new
programming language. But if you really want to succeed, these are some
critically important tasks to consider.

- [ ] Set a clear goal for your learning. Ask yourself why you want to pursue
this and _write_ down your answer.

Everyone has different learning objectives, and those goals (or the lack of
them) will likely dictate the success you experience.

- Do you want to solve complex problems?
- Are you looking to build new skills so you can get a new job?
- Do you want to build a project?
- Are you just looking to satisfy your curiosity?
- Do you want to contribute to open source projects?
- Do you find these concepts to be academically appealing?

You may have any number of reasons, but try to get really clear and specific
about why you're doing what you're doing. Establish a tangible goal for your
learning, even though this goal may change over time.

- [ ] Create space in your life to focus and establish constraints.

Review the many priorities and projects you're currently pursuing in your life.
If your schedule is completely full, and you don't have time to put towards
your learning, then it's unlikely you'd be successful. Consider limiting some
of the other responsibilities you've acquired when possible so that you can
devote some focused time and energy towards learning. If the goal you set is
only to gain passing familiarity, then you can succeed with minimal time
investment. But if you are seeking deeper understanding, you'll need to give
yourself time and space to immerse yourself.

## Next

Although we've given a lot of initial context, we've actually arrived at a
fairly simple and straightforward checklist to get started. In the next post,
I'll be covering some learning strategies we can use to continue.

